---
date: 23-01-06 11:10:16.098708
excerpt: Immersive Fan Engagement
header:
  teaser: assets/images/uc10-small.png
order: 9
sidebar:
- image: assets/images/uc10.png
  image_alt: logo
  text: Enable fans to access different immersive cameras using their mobile devices from home and/or from the actual venue, watching the event from a close-to-play position, even if their seats are in the upper tier of the stadium, allowing also to insert event information and analytics.
  title: Objective
title: Use Case 10 - Immersive fan engagement
---
Immersive video (360° and 180° video) and VR headset players have brought new possibilities in sports for fan engagement, joining the reality of video images with the immersion experience of VR devices. YBVR (Yerba Buena Virtual Reality) has developed a new technology that blends the maximum video quality resolution with optimized bandwidth for live and Video on Demand (VoD) video streaming. Also, other sports event information can be inserted into the immersive video, such as TV feed overlapped as a jumbotron over the game, real time scoreboard, additional analytics of the players and the teams, etc. YBVR’s technology also provides an interactive experience allowing fans to switch between different cameras at any time during the event, in a seamless experience, without any buffering or cuts, only selecting the new position in the camera’s map and clicking on the desired new position. Also, a TV multiscreen view is included in the experience, giving fans the opportunity of being the director of the TV production. Fan engagement increases when it combines the immersive video (feeling to be there), the personalized experience (every fan will focus to different players and positions) and interactivity (changing the position renews attention), and all these advantages can be enjoyed from the comfort of the fan’s home. The same YBVR technology can be used also for the fans into the venue. Immersive video doesn’t add value to the experience of being in the stadium if you are already there, but this technology can offer a multiscreen experience in the mobile device of the audience with the feeds of TV at this moment. Then, for example, a fan can watch images of a penalty kick on the smartphone and celebrate the goal with the rest of the fans in the venue. In general, the use case of immersive fan engagement offers an unparalleled experience to sports enthusiasts by allowing them to watch live games from the front row of the stadium, from a distance inside the same venue or from the comfort of their own homes. This is made possible by using cutting-edge immersive technologies such as 360° and 180° videos and virtual reality headsets, coupled with state-of-the-art communication technology. This use case reaches the possibilities of B5G networks to improve fan engagement in sports events using immersive technologies. Immersive video (360° and 180°) and streaming technologies can enrich the fan experience by taking them to the front row of a sport event by bringing them closer to the action at the sporting venue and at the same time providing very high-quality video contents. To explore these possibilities, two different scenarios will be developed (i) at-home, virtually brings the fan to the front row of the sporting event. The key in this situation will be VR technology and immersive video that are enabled by B5G streaming fea-tures, and (ii)	in-venue, taking the action to the fan, regardless of the seat at the stadium. With a low latency multiscreen application, the fan can follow all the details of the match in their portable device. This use case will enable fans to access different immersive cameras using their mobile devices from home and/or from the actual venue, watching the event from a close-to-play position, even if their seats are in the upper tier of the stadium. They can change the camera at any time, at their own will, simply by clicking on the mobile screen. All these possibilities require the highest capabilities of mobile data massive download in an indoor well-defined coverage area in the venue.
{: .text-justify}
