---
date: 23-01-06 11:10:16.099498
excerpt: Service Robots for Enhanced Passengers' Experience
header:
  teaser: assets/images/uc11-small.png
order: 10
sidebar:
- image: assets/images/uc11.png
  image_alt: logo
  text: Help airports providing seamless and personalized passenger experience while increasing efficiency and reducing costs, thanks to the deployment of prototypes supported by combinations of robots, AI algorithms, IoT sensors and B5G technologies.
  title: Objective
title: Use Case 11 - Service Robots for Enhanced Passengers' Experience
---
The scope of UC11 is to develop a connected airport ecosystem that leverages the power of AI algo-rithms and data from diverse connected sources to optimize passenger flows and enhance the overall passengers’ experience. The high-speed connectivity and low latency provided by 5G/B5G networks will facilitate the deployment of smart service robots that can inspect passengers' flows and assist passengers with relevant information and services. Creating a connected airport operation has long been one of the airports’ priorities. With the use of AI-powered algorithms and data coming from different sources such as cameras, motion detection sensors, etc., the passenger check-in process can become more efficient and effective by reducing waiting times and the long queues that today exist in the check-in areas. Passengers who must proceed to the check-in counter first, to deliver their hold luggage, usually have to wait in a queue, not being aware of the time needed for this process to be completed. Utilising images coming from cameras, AI-powered mechanisms will analyse passenger flows and will detect anomalies in the queues. Additionally, other cameras will be placed at the main entrances of the terminal. This will allow the detection of any anomalies in the flow and volume of the passengers that enter the terminal. All data captured from the cameras and potentially other sensors, the system’s historical data, in combination with the capabilities of B5G technology, will be analysed in real time. In cases of anomalies, as well as in cases that the system recognizes that a problematic passengers flow will occur in front of a specific check-in counter, the system will alert the Terminal Operations Supervisor (TOS) and their office assistant in real-time. The TOS will have the ability to control remotely the AI enabled robots to act immediately to prevent congestion in front of the check-in counters. The robots will help passengers by providing them personalized information regarding their flights. The robots will confirm the correct check-in counter and propose to the passengers the most appropriate one, with less waiting time needed to fulfil their luggage drop off.  Thus, the smart service robots will help airports to balance the demand of check-in counters used by airlines, by assisting in the decision-making process of the TOS and successfully optimizing the waiting times of passengers. The airport operators will have the tools to offer improved passenger service and experience, as the flows will be constantly analysed and will be optimized with the support of the smart service robots. The smart service robots will be also available in the airport facilities for additional services. By combining data exchanged from the various airport applications and interactions with the building and objects, smart service robots will be able to provide passengers with relevant, information and services to assist them with their boarding gates, with more personalized retail offers and suggestions as well as with airport services that passengers may need. Finally, the service robots will be able to inspect passengers’ circulations areas for infrastructure faults, defects, cleanliness, and general housekeeping. Deficiencies in such matters will be alerted to the relevant help desk.
{: .text-justify}
