---
date: 23-01-06 11:10:16.100339
excerpt: City Parks in Metaverse
header:
  teaser: assets/images/uc12-small.png
order: 11
sidebar:
- image: assets/images/uc12.png
  image_alt: logo
  text: Allow Borgo Medioevale to take advantage of the Metaverse functionalities and tools, including virtual environment, social interaction, customizable experience, virtual reality, accessibility, virtual tour, immersive experience and educational opportunities.
  title: Objective
title: Use Case 12 - City Parks in Metaverse
---

The metaverse is a virtual world that is accessible through the Internet. In an outdoor environment, the metaverse can provide a variety of experiences by extending the physical world and adding value to it. A park in the metaverse is thought of as a virtual recreation space where users can interact with each other in an immersive and interactive environment. The selected location in Turin is “Borgo Medievale”. Indeed, this a unique area in Turin, reproducing a Medieval village in between one of the most important – even in terms of natural heritage – Park in Turin, the Valentino Park. The Borgo Medievale is going to undergo major restoration and renovation works, which will start at the beginning of 2024 and should be completed by 2026. Therefore, the concept of the “Park in metaverse” is particularly strategic in this framework for the following reasons, as it will allow to live part of the Borgo and of the park, even during its 2-year closure both for citizens and tourists from Italy and abroad, it will help reinforce a strong cultural/touristic vocation of the Borgo and the Park with a strong technology/futuristic vision, and it will showcase how real and virtual can be combined to make cultural heritage live and impact on citizens/touristic even during construction work. This use case will develop around the social metaverse concept, centred on the idea of creating a virtual world where people can interact with each other, form social connections, and participate in a variety of activities and events and create a sense of community. The metaverse can provide several advantages for visiting and exploring the Borgo Medievale, including access to Virtual Environment (The Borgo will have a 3D digital twin that simulates the real-world, complete with walking paths, shops and the castle), Social Interactions (Users will be able to interact with each other in real-time, either through avatars or other virtual representations. They could engage in social activities like playing games or simply chatting with friends, thus creating social connections and a sense of community), Customizable Experience (Users will be able personalize their experience in the park by choosing the appearance of their avatars, selecting their clothing, and even changing some parts of the environment around them), Virtual Reality (The park will be designed also for VR devices, to provide users with an even more immersive experience. This will allow them to move around in the virtual environment and interact with objects and other users in a more natural way), Accessibility (The social metaverse allows users to visit the Borgo Medievale from anywhere in the world, without the need to physically travel to Turin), Virtual Tour (The social metaverse can provide a virtual tour of the Borgo Medievale, allowing users to explore the medieval village in a virtual environment. This can provide a sense of what it would be like to visit the Borgo Medievale/Valentino Park in person, even if the physical location is closed), Immersive Experience (The social metaverse can provide an immersive experience for users, allowing them to feel like they are there. By incorporating virtual reality technology, users can feel like they are walking through the alleys of the Borgo Medievale, interacting with the buildings and other elements of the environment), Educational Opportunities (The social metaverse can provide educational opportunities for students, teachers, and other interested individuals. For example, they can learn about the history of the Borgo Medievale and its significance, as well as other aspects of medieval life and culture). Besides individual citizens, users would include e.g., cultural guides, teachers and schools, trainers, groups of friends, families. While the number of possible uses of the metaverse in a public space are infinite, for the TrialsNet project an application will be designed and implemented to stress the current 5G mobile network, e.g., in terms of bitrate and latency, and to demonstrate a playful application of the metaverse. Moreover, the used platform will be open source, thus allowing other creators to develop new applications on the same infrastructure.
{: .text-justify}
