---
date: 23-01-06 11:10:16.101346
excerpt: Extended XR Museums Experience
header:
  teaser: assets/images/uc13-small.png
order: 12
sidebar:
- image: assets/images/uc13.png
  image_alt: logo
  text: Extend the museum experience in an immersive way, blending physical and virtual elements to create a unique, interactive experience for visitors.
  title: Objective
title: Use Case 13 - Extended XR museum experience
---

XR has a lot of potential and could transform how museums display and share collections. By combining physical, digital, and virtual elements, museums can create an environment that is both educational and entertaining, making the museum visit an enjoyable and memorable experience for visitors of all ages located in different places.  In addition, the metaverse would increase accessibility for those unable to visit physically, due to distance, mobility, or disability. Digital content, such as 3D models, videos, and audio, provide visitors with a rich, multimedia experience that enhances the museum visit. This is more ambitious if conceived as an integrated path in the city, integrating “augmented” experiences spread in different city areas. As compared to the current VR usage in museums, 5BG technologies and the metaverse will allow visitors to be accompanied by their remotely located friends or families through the visit and exchange opinions and observations about the artworks.  The scope of this use case in the Turin site is to integrate, under the same platform, augmented/virtual reality experiences that were developed in previous European Union (EU) projects (notably 5G-TOURS, AI for museums, 5G EVE, etc.) and to build an enticing narrative, and make them more accessible through official channels of Turin municipality. This use case will provide an extended reality experience, with several steps related to selected museums/cultural point of interests, which final users could enjoy entering from a single stop shop. These different experiences will be linked thorough common storytelling and could be organized as a path, leading users from one museum to another. Experiences could be indoor or outdoor and will be meaningful contents enabling to attract people from outside or to augment and make the visits inside more immersive. Targeted engaging techniques will be identified to approach different targets (adults, youngsters, schools, etc.). Special attention will be given to the design of accessible experiences for all, including the physical and mental disabled. Sensors will be leveraged to estimate passively the number of visitors in a particular area/room, which will used to evaluate the popularity of museum sections and to make more immersive visit by augmenting the experience with the digital twin of the people in the area/room. Furthermore, such estimation can be also exploited to plan and allocate properly the communication and computation resources needed in the network infrastruc-ture. In short, thanks to AR/XR devices, visitors would interact with exhibits, view high-resolution images, watch videos and read content descriptions and listen to anecdotes stimulating their curiosity. The contents will be enjoyed on XR headset or on mobile, tablets and PC depending on the exhibition area, targets, level of complexity/immersivity of the experience. 
{: .text-justify}
