---
date: 23-01-06 11:10:16.096314
excerpt: Remote Proctoring
header:
  teaser: assets/images/uc7-small.png
order: 6
sidebar:
- image: assets/images/uc7.png
  image_alt: logo
  text: Demonstrate the possibility of ensuring a telepresence support in surgical field based on 5G wireless network, in the field of interventional cardiology.
  title: Objective
title: Use Case 7 - Remote Proctoring
---

The newly trained surgeons for interventional cardiology must undergo training in hospitals with demonstrated experience in the field. Usually, the newly trained interventionalists require the physical presence of an experienced proctor to safely observe the activity and ultimately act if any sort of complications occur when it comes time to perform the very first cases. The time duration of surgical proctorship is highly variable, greatly depending on the complexity of the procedure, the operators' skill level, and their level of confidence. Even though the close supervision of a skilled surgeon appears to be required to ensure adequate patient safety, this stage of the learning process can significantly slow down the diffusion of novel interventional techniques due to the costs and logistical challenges associated with the proctor's physical presence. The traditional in-person coaching strategy will naturally evolve into remote proctoring support. This cutting-edge proctoring method facilitates a quicker learning process by minimizing the organizational work required for each in-person training session, minimizing travel time for expert proctors, increasing the number of monitored procedures for each proctor, and minimizing costs for the National healthcare system. Today, new cutting-edge technologies for telepresence can make remote proctorship just as effective as conventional proctor support to safely direct the surgery. With these tools, the remote proctor should theoretically have the same field of view as the operators to completely understand what is happening. Furthermore, multiple virtual participants can join the same proctored session. However, these technologies require smooth connectivity with high stability and efficiency, therefore today these activities are mainly based on wired connection. To enable new functionalities and ensure efficiency in remote proctoring activities in the field of interventional cardiology, this use case offers new solutions based on enhanced telepresence, thanks to the implementation of 5G-radio connectivity. The final aim of this use case will be to demonstrate the possibility of ensuring a telepresence support in surgical field based on 5G wireless network and not by fully wired connection as currently done. This use case will implement the remote proctoring activities in the field of interventional cardiology that will take place in two Italian hospitals located in Pisa and Massa respectively. This use case will develop an E2E solution based on a telepresence platform that will enable a remote expert cardiologist in Pisa to efficiently join a proctored surgery session in Massa. A dedicated 5G indoor coverage will support the connectivity in the Pisa hospital while a VPN link will be setup to provide a secure and stable connection between the two hospitals. In the trial of UC7, the expert proctor will be located at a central hospital hub site in CNR campus in Pisa. The remote hospital site in Massa will host the surgical training room where new trained interventionalists will perform under the remote observation of the expert proctor. This use case aims to specifically deploy an indoor in-field cellular coverage network, based on a dedicated 5G network, for real-time remote proctoring applications to offer the best quality of connectivity. The remote proctor in central hospital hub will be equipped with a telepresence station to monitor and support the surgeons in surgery training room in the remote hospital via the telepresence system. This will enable the experienced proctors to supervise many surgical operations and, by means of wireless connectivity instead of cable one, has the advantage of being location-independent and, in a more general application, enables it to be a truly portable tool that expert proctors can use even outside of a specific hospital.
{: .text-justify}
