---
date: 23-01-06 11:10:16.097117
excerpt: Smart Ambulance
header:
  teaser: assets/images/uc8-small.png
order: 7
sidebar:
- image: assets/images/uc8.png
  image_alt: logo
  text: Develop an infrastructure to enable ambulances to share diagnostic information with the main centre, as well as to receive assistance froma remote expert.
  title: Objective
title: Use Case 8 - Smart Ambulance
---
The prognosis of acute coronary syndromes (ACS) and, in particular, the ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI), is strongly depending on the time between the onset of the symptoms and the reperfusion of the coronary artery responsible for the ischemic event. The protocol for STEMI care involves primary percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI), or pharmacological reperfusion with thrombolysis. Any delay in therapeutical actions increases the patient's mortality or loss of myocardial muscle with consequent cardiac dysfunction. The first hour from symptoms onset is called the “golden hour” because this time is burdened by high mortality. In this scenario, ambulances are not only a mere tool for quick transportation of a patient’s living area to a hospital equipped with Cath lab  facilities for coronary intervention, but they also offer early pre-hospital evaluation for a precise diagnosis and preliminary therapeutic support.  A better disease outcome may result in pre-hospital diagnosis and appropriate care of the condition in individuals with chest discomfort. Although usually there isn't a cardiologist on the ambulance, the hospital staff already receives patient data from the ambulance such as blood pressure, oxygen saturation, and electrocardiogram. Currently, ambulances are not equipped with instruments that allow HD real-time patient vision and echocardiographic video to allow an efficient real-time visualization of patient heath information for the remote expert in the hospitals. In some cases, specialists in hospitals can be called to remotely assist the emergency operator onboard (usually paramedics) with specific treatments or diagnostic tests while the ambulance is getting to the hospital, improving the efficiency of the emergency service. In addition, the specialists in the hospital can better manage and treat the emergency patients if they are a detailed patient heath view before their arrival in hospital.  Therefore, it is crucial to have an effective and active remote audio/video communication channel between hospitals and emergency ambulances for the STEMI treatment and, in general, for any health emergency in real-world environment. This use case will propose a 5G-connected smart ambulance operating outdoor in the hospitals area in Pisa and connected to the hospital in Massa. The use case will develop an infrastructure that will enable ambulances (or small Emergency centres) to share diagnostic information with the main centre, adopting a “hub and spoke” strategy. The proposed infrastructure will be designed and implemented to equip the ambulance with diagnostic tools for cardiological pathology and smart devices to guarantee an efficient and fast 5G connection in remote locations and mobility conditions. In particular, the ambulance will be equipped with modern STEMI diagnostic tool (echocardiography) and a 5G hub to ensure a reliable connection in all conditions, including emergency high-speed transport through congested urban areas. The onboard emergency operator can send information and big data batches (such as real-time video and 3D imaging, like in echocardiography) to a central hub with low latency and the central hub will provide real-time information to local operators to maximize early intervention. To have more specific information about the clinical status of the patient and the emergency setting, the remote experts in the central hub will get information from ambulances and onboard operators via VR headsets. The emergency operator onboard the ambulance will be equipped with an AR headset with cameras to receive information from the central hub and to send the video of emergency setting to the central hub. 
To send data and a HD video in real-time between the ambulance in mobility and the hospital hub, low latency 5G is essential. In addition, video from onboard emergency operator cameras can be transmitted live via the very high throughput provided by 5G without any quality loss or buffering.
{: .text-justify}
